content/docs/2-Getting Started/1-Installation.mdx, before:

---
title: Installation
wip: false
---

## Python version

<FlamaName /> is fully compatible with <PythonName /> 3.7 and newer versions. If you do not have any preference, we
recommend you to use the latest version.

As a first step, check the version of your active <PythonName /> environment:

```commandline
> python --version
  Python 3.7.6
```

If the version is prior to 3.7, we suggest you to create a virtual environment with the latest version.

### Creating a virtual environment

This section is not a comprehensive guide about the management of <PythonName /> virtual environments. We encourage you
to learn more about [venv](https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html#module-venv),
[pyenv](https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv) or [conda](https://docs.conda.io/en/latest/) for a better understanding on how
to manage virtual environments. Virtual environments allow the isolation of dependencies, which plays a crucial role to
avoid breaking compatibility between different projects.

To create and activate a virtual environment with a compatible <PythonName /> version you can take the following code
snippets. Before you start working on a new project, it is very important to activate the corresponding environment. The
last command line in both code snippets precisely activate the environment with **conda** or **pyenv**, respectively.

##### Creation of virtual environment with conda

```commandline
> conda create --name flama-dev python=3.8 --yes
> conda activate flama-dev
```

##### Creation of virtual environment with pyenv

```commandline
> pyenv install 3.8.0
> pyenv virtualenv 3.8.0 flama-dev
> pyenv local flama-dev
```

## Install Flama

### Core

<FlamaName /> is a <PythonName /> library [hosted on PyPI](https://pypi.org/project/flama/), and can be easily installed
with [pip](https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/) (the package installer for Python). Within the previously created and
activated virtual environment, run the following command:

```commandline
> pip install flama
```

After running this command line, you'll have <FlamaName /> installed and ready to be used in your project.

### Extras

You have installed the core functionality of <FlamaName /> already. However, you might need some extra functionality
when working in your project:

- [Typesystem](https://www.encode.io/typesystem/): A comprehensive library for data validation typically used to define
  typed data schemas which provides data validation and object serialization & deserialization tools.

- [Marshmallow](https://marshmallow.readthedocs.io/en/stable/quickstart.html#): An alternative library to **typesystem**
  for data validation.

- [Forge (python)](https://python-forge.readthedocs.io/en/latest/): An elegant library for revising function signatures
  at runtime.

- [SQlAlchemy](https://www.sqlalchemy.org/): SQL toolkit and Object Relational Mapper that gives application developers
  the full power and flexibility of SQL.

These dependencies are required if you want to use typed data schemas (**typesystems** or **marshmallow**), or if you
are going to use pagination (**python-forge**), or if you need to include a database (**sqlalchemy**) in your project.

If you use **typesystem** schemas, run:

```commandline
> pip install flama[typesystem, pagination, database]
```

If you use **marshmallow** schemas instead, run:

```commandline
> pip install flama[marshmallow, pagination, database]
```

### Development

If you want to contribute to <FlamaName /> development, you will need to install it from the local folder where you have
cloned the repository. Run the following command if this is your case:

```commandline
> git clone git@github.com:vortico/flama.git
> cd flama
> make install
```

To keep learning you can now check out the [Quickstart](/docs/getting-started/quickstart).

### Flama CLI

After installing <FlamaName /> you will have the <FlamaName /> command-line interface (CLI) at your disposal.

The easiest and more practical way to check that everything was correctly installed is by running:

```commandline
> flama --help
Usage: flama [OPTIONS] COMMAND [ARGS]...

  Fire up your models with Flama 🔥

Options:
  --version  Check the version of your locally installed Flama
  --help     Get help about how to use Flama CLI

Commands:
  run    Run a Flama Application.
  serve  Serve the ML model file at <MODEL_PATH> within a Flama Application.
  start  Start a Flama Application based on a config file.
```

To check what version of the library you have installed, simply run:

```commandline
> flama --version

flama, version 0.16.0
```

If you get something similar to the above output, you are completely set. We recommend you to keep reading the
documentation, and enjoy the journey.

Commit message:

:recycle: Update docs to be compliant with new serialisation strategy

content/docs/2-Getting Started/1-Installation.mdx, after:

---
title: Installation
wip: false
---

## Python version

<FlamaName /> is fully compatible with <PythonName /> 3.7 and newer versions. If you do not have any preference, we
recommend you to use the latest version.

As a first step, check the version of your active <PythonName /> environment:

```commandline
> python --version
  Python 3.7.6
```

If the version is prior to 3.7, we suggest you to create a virtual environment with the latest version.

### Creating a virtual environment

This section is not a comprehensive guide about the management of <PythonName /> virtual environments. We encourage you
to learn more about [venv](https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html#module-venv),
[pyenv](https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv) or [conda](https://docs.conda.io/en/latest/) for a better understanding on how
to manage virtual environments. Virtual environments allow the isolation of dependencies, which plays a crucial role to
avoid breaking compatibility between different projects.

To create and activate a virtual environment with a compatible <PythonName /> version you can take the following code
snippets. Before you start working on a new project, it is very important to activate the corresponding environment. The
last command line in both code snippets precisely activate the environment with **conda** or **pyenv**, respectively.

##### Creation of virtual environment with conda

```commandline
> conda create --name flama-dev python=3.8 --yes
> conda activate flama-dev
```

##### Creation of virtual environment with pyenv

```commandline
> pyenv install 3.8.0
> pyenv virtualenv 3.8.0 flama-dev
> pyenv local flama-dev
```

## Install Flama

### Core

<FlamaName /> is a <PythonName /> library [hosted on PyPI](https://pypi.org/project/flama/), and can be easily installed
with [pip](https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/) (the package installer for Python). Within the previously created and
activated virtual environment, run the following command:

```commandline
> pip install flama
```

After running this command line, you'll have <FlamaName /> installed and ready to be used in your project.

### Extras

You have installed the core functionality of <FlamaName /> already. However, you might need some extra functionality
when working in your project:

- [Pydantic](https://docs.pydantic.dev/): A library for data validation and settings management with
  support for type hints.

- [Typesystem](https://www.encode.io/typesystem/): A comprehensive library for data validation typically used to define
  typed data schemas which provides data validation and object serialization & deserialization tools.

- [Marshmallow](https://marshmallow.readthedocs.io/en/stable/quickstart.html#): A library for data validation and
  serialization/deserialization.

- [Forge (python)](https://python-forge.readthedocs.io/en/latest/): An elegant library for revising function signatures
  at runtime.

- [SQlAlchemy](https://www.sqlalchemy.org/): SQL toolkit and Object Relational Mapper that gives application developers
  the full power and flexibility of SQL.

These dependencies are required if you want to use typed data schemas (**pydantic**, **typesystems**, **marshmallow**),
or if you are going to use pagination (**python-forge**), or if you need to include a database (**sqlalchemy**) in your
project.

If you use **pydantic** schemas, run:

```commandline
> pip install flama[pydantic, pagination, database]
```

In case you want to use **typesystem** schemas, run:

```commandline
> pip install flama[typesystem, pagination, database]
```

Or, if you prefer to use **marshmallow** schemas instead, run:

```commandline
> pip install flama[marshmallow, pagination, database]
```

### Development

If you want to contribute to <FlamaName /> development, you will need to install it from the local folder where you have
cloned the repository. Run the following command if this is your case:

```commandline
> git clone git@github.com:vortico/flama.git
> cd flama
> make install
```

To keep learning you can now check out the [Quickstart](/docs/getting-started/quickstart).

### Flama CLI

After installing <FlamaName /> you will have the <FlamaName /> command-line interface (CLI) at your disposal.

The easiest and more practical way to check that everything was correctly installed is by running:

```commandline
> flama --help
Usage: flama [OPTIONS] COMMAND [ARGS]...

  Fire up your models with Flama 🔥

Options:
  --version  Check the version of your locally installed Flama
  --help     Get help about how to use Flama CLI

Commands:
  run    Run a Flama Application based on a route.
  serve  Serve an ML model file within a Flama Application.
  start  Start a Flama Application based on a config file.
```

To check what version of the library you have installed, simply run:

```commandline
> flama --version

flama, version 0.16.0
```

If you get something similar to the above output, you are completely set. We recommend you to keep reading the
documentation, and enjoy the journey.
