content/docs/4-Machine Learning API/3-Model resource.mdx, before:

---
title: Model resources
wip: true
---

Thus far we have shown how to [package models](/docs/machine-learning-api/packaging-models) in order to
[add them](/docs/machine-learning-api/) to a <FlamaName/> App. The way in which ML models are added or what they
represent internally was not discussed in detail before, as that was not necessary for the purpose of previous sections.
However, it should be no surprise for us, _something_ happens under the hood when we add models. And, that "something"
is responsible for making the model object(s) accessible via HTTP request to certain URL(s). When we serve/add models
either by CLI **serve/start** or by using the syntax **app.models.add_model** we get the ability of interacting with the
model via the URL which is specified as parameter **path**. Here, interacting means:

- Obtaining a **JSON** representation of the model added, which contains all the parameters uniquely defining the model.
  We obtain this **JSON** representation by simply running a **GET** request to the model URL, e.g.

  <Label color="green">GET</Label> **http://127.0.0.1/sklearn/** for one of our examples.

- Obtaining predictions from the model added, which requires us to send the input data on which predictions will be run.
  We get such predictions via a **POST** requests with a data payload to the method predict of the model which is
  represented via the model-predict URL, e.g. <Label color="blue">POST</Label> **http://127.0.0.1/sklearn/predict/** for
  the same example.

This means, when we serve/add models, <FlamaName/> takes care of

--

Adding models to a <FlamaName /> App in the way introduced in the
[previous section](/docs/machine-learning-api/add-models) involves the creation of a `Resource` object (specifically, a
`ModelResource`) automatically for you, which represents an API resource, in the REST sense of the word. This
`ModelResource` defines the default way of interaction with the ML model itself by providing **predict** and **inspect**
(P&I) methods.

However, the convenience of `add_models` might not be sufficient for your purposes for the following reasons:

- You need to customise the P&I methods
- You need to define new methods for the resource

In what follows you will learn how to add model resources in a more customised way with the class `ModelResource`.

## The ModelResource class

### Predict

Explain the following meta-example:

```python
class MyModel(ModelResource, metaclass=ModelResourceType):
    name = "my_model"
    verbose_name = "My ML model"
    model_path = "path/to/your_model_file.flm"

    @resource_method("/predict", methods=["POST"], name="model-predict")
    def predict(self, x):
        return self.model.predict(x).tolist()
```

### Inspect

Explain the following meta-example:

```python
class MyModel(ModelResource, metaclass=ModelResourceType):
    name = "my_model"
    verbose_name = "My ML model"
    model_path = "path/to/your_model_file.flm"

    @resource_method("/inspect", methods=["GET"], name="model-inspect")
    def inspect(self) -> typing.Any:
        return self.model.get_params()
```

### Custom methods

Explain the following meta-example:

```python
class MyModel(ModelResource, metaclass=ModelResourceType):
    name = "my_model"
    verbose_name = "My ML model"
    model_path = "path/to/your_model_file.flm"

    @resource_method("/custom-method", methods=["GET"], name="model-custom-method")
    def custom_method(self):
        """
        summary:
            A custom method which returns the verbose name of the model.
        description:
            This is a more detailed description of the method itself.
            Here we can give all the details required and they will appear
            automatically in the auto-generated docs.
        responses:
            200:
                description: Verbose name of the ML model.
        """
        return {"name": self.verbose_name}
```

## Adding the resource

### Explicit

```python
class MySKLearnModel(ModelResource, metaclass=ModelResourceType):
    ...

app.models.add_model_resource(path="/model", resource=MySKLearnModel)
```

### Decorator

```python
@app.models.model("/model")
class MySKLearnModel(ModelResource, metaclass=ModelResourceType):
    ...
```

## Examples

### PyTorch

```python
class MyTorchModel(ModelResource, metaclass=ModelResourceType):
    name = "torch_model"
    verbose_name = "PyTorch Model"
    model_path = "path/to/your_model_file.flm"

    @resource_method("/info", methods=["GET"], name="model-info")
    def info(self):
        return {"name": self.verbose_name}
```

### Scikit-Learn

```python
class MySKLearnModel(ModelResource, metaclass=ModelResourceType):
    name = "sk_model"
    verbose_name = "SK-Learn Model"
    model_path = "path/to/your_model_file.flm"

    @resource_method("/info", methods=["GET"], name="model-info")
    def info(self):
        return {"name": self.verbose_name}
```

### TensorFlow

```python
class MySKLearnModel(ModelResource, metaclass=ModelResourceType):
    name = "tf_model"
    verbose_name = "TensorFlow Model"
    model_path = "path/to/your_model_file.flm"

    @resource_method("/info", methods=["GET"], name="model-info")
    def info(self):
        return {"name": self.verbose_name}
```

**Remark**: Show SWAGGER docs for all combinations

Commit message:

:sparkles: Finish introduction of section 4.3

content/docs/4-Machine Learning API/3-Model resource.mdx, after:

---
title: Model resources
wip: true
---

Thus far we have shown how to [package models](/docs/machine-learning-api/packaging-models) in order to
[add them](/docs/machine-learning-api/) to a <FlamaName/> App. The way in which ML models are added or what they
represent internally was not discussed in detail before, as that was not necessary for the purpose of previous sections.
However, it should be no surprise for us, _something_ happens under the hood when we add models. And, that "something"
is responsible for making the model object(s) accessible via HTTP request to certain URL(s). When we serve/add models
either by CLI **serve/start** or by using the syntax **app.models.add_model** we get the ability of interacting with the
model via the URL which is specified as parameter **path**. Here, interacting means:

- Obtaining a **JSON** representation of the model added, which contains all the parameters uniquely defining the model.
  We obtain this **JSON** representation by simply running a **GET** request to the model URL, e.g.

  <Label color="green">GET</Label> **http://127.0.0.1/sklearn/** for one of our examples.

- Obtaining predictions from the model added, which requires us to send the input data on which predictions will be run.
  We get such predictions via a **POST** requests with a data payload to the method predict of the model which is
  represented via the model-predict URL, e.g. <Label color="blue">POST</Label> **http://127.0.0.1/sklearn/predict/** for
  the same example.

This means, when we serve/add models, <FlamaName/> takes care of creating a **Resource** object per model automatically,
specifically a **ModelResource** object, which represents an API resource in the REST sense of the word. This object
defines the default way of interaction with the model itself by providing the methods just mentioned. A more thorough
discussion about the **Resource** class and its children classes can be found in [here](/docs/api-reference/resource).

However, the convenience of `add_models` might not be sufficient for your purposes for the following reasons:

- You need to customise the default methods
- You need to define new methods for the resource

In what follows you will learn how to add model resources in a more customised way with the class `ModelResource`.

## The ModelResource class

### Predict

Explain the following meta-example:

```python
class MyModel(ModelResource, metaclass=ModelResourceType):
    name = "my_model"
    verbose_name = "My ML model"
    model_path = "path/to/your_model_file.flm"

    @resource_method("/predict", methods=["POST"], name="model-predict")
    def predict(self, x):
        return self.model.predict(x).tolist()
```

### Inspect

Explain the following meta-example:

```python
class MyModel(ModelResource, metaclass=ModelResourceType):
    name = "my_model"
    verbose_name = "My ML model"
    model_path = "path/to/your_model_file.flm"

    @resource_method("/inspect", methods=["GET"], name="model-inspect")
    def inspect(self) -> typing.Any:
        return self.model.get_params()
```

### Custom methods

Explain the following meta-example:

```python
class MyModel(ModelResource, metaclass=ModelResourceType):
    name = "my_model"
    verbose_name = "My ML model"
    model_path = "path/to/your_model_file.flm"

    @resource_method("/custom-method", methods=["GET"], name="model-custom-method")
    def custom_method(self):
        """
        summary:
            A custom method which returns the verbose name of the model.
        description:
            This is a more detailed description of the method itself.
            Here we can give all the details required and they will appear
            automatically in the auto-generated docs.
        responses:
            200:
                description: Verbose name of the ML model.
        """
        return {"name": self.verbose_name}
```

## Adding the resource

### Explicit

```python
class MySKLearnModel(ModelResource, metaclass=ModelResourceType):
    ...

app.models.add_model_resource(path="/model", resource=MySKLearnModel)
```

### Decorator

```python
@app.models.model("/model")
class MySKLearnModel(ModelResource, metaclass=ModelResourceType):
    ...
```

## Examples

### PyTorch

```python
class MyTorchModel(ModelResource, metaclass=ModelResourceType):
    name = "torch_model"
    verbose_name = "PyTorch Model"
    model_path = "path/to/your_model_file.flm"

    @resource_method("/info", methods=["GET"], name="model-info")
    def info(self):
        return {"name": self.verbose_name}
```

### Scikit-Learn

```python
class MySKLearnModel(ModelResource, metaclass=ModelResourceType):
    name = "sk_model"
    verbose_name = "SK-Learn Model"
    model_path = "path/to/your_model_file.flm"

    @resource_method("/info", methods=["GET"], name="model-info")
    def info(self):
        return {"name": self.verbose_name}
```

### TensorFlow

```python
class MySKLearnModel(ModelResource, metaclass=ModelResourceType):
    name = "tf_model"
    verbose_name = "TensorFlow Model"
    model_path = "path/to/your_model_file.flm"

    @resource_method("/info", methods=["GET"], name="model-info")
    def info(self):
        return {"name": self.verbose_name}
```

**Remark**: Show SWAGGER docs for all combinations
