content/docs/4-Machine Learning API/4-Model components.mdx, before:

---
title: Model components
wip: true
---

In the previous section we covered the fundamentals of building custom model resources. Understanding
what model resources are, and how to use them, was the first step in building a custom model. We took
advantage of the <FlamaName /> built-in's **ModelResource** and **ModelResourceType** to create a custom
model resource that incorporated custom methods and exposed them as routes of our API,
beyond the standard **/predict/** and **/inspect/** routes added by default when using <FlamaName /> CLI,
or the syntax **app.models.add_model** (see the sections about [adding models](/docs/machine-learning-api/add-models#add-models) and
[adding model resources](/docs/machine-learning-api/model-resource#adding-the-resource) for more details).

```python
class CustomModel(Model):
    def inspect(self) -> typing.Any:
        return self.model.__dict__

    def predict(self, x: typing.Any) -> typing.Any:
        return self.model.predict(x)


class CustomModelComponent(ModelComponent):
    def resolve(self) -> CustomModel:
        return self.model


component = CustomModelComponent(model)


class CustomModelResource(ModelResource, metaclass=ModelResourceType):
    name = "custom_model"
    verbose_name = "Custom model"
    component = component


app.add_component(component)
app.models.add_model_resource("/", CustomModelResource)
```

Commit message:

:construction: Finish "what is a component" section.

content/docs/4-Machine Learning API/4-Model components.mdx, after:

---
title: Model components
wip: true
---

In the previous section we covered the fundamentals of building custom model resources. Understanding
what model resources are, and how to use them, was the first step in building a custom model. We took
advantage of the <FlamaName /> built-in's **ModelResource** and **ModelResourceType** to create a custom
model resource that incorporated custom methods and exposed them as routes of our API,
beyond the standard **/predict/** and **/inspect/** routes added by default when using <FlamaName /> CLI,
or the syntax **app.models.add_model** (see the sections about [adding models](/docs/machine-learning-api/add-models#add-models) and
[adding model resources](/docs/machine-learning-api/model-resource#adding-the-resource) for more details).
Without us knowing, when we created our custom model resource, <FlamaName /> added it as a _Component_
of the application (specifically, as a _ModelComponent_). But, what is a component? And what is a model component?

## What is a component?

<FlamaName /> **Component**s are the building blocks of an application. Components are an abstraction which allow us to
isolate the logic required to create the objects needed by the application methods exposed as routes. Whenever an
application route receives a request, it will call the corresponding method of the application which encapsulates the
functionality responsible for yielding the desired response. Such functionality typically requires objects to be
created, and these objects are created by the application components. Thus, Components permits us to isolate the logic
which is not directly related to the application's business logic, and to reuse it across different application methods.
Now, a natural question could be: "what are these objects that components create?". The answer is: They can be anything!
They can be: a query parameter, a body, a database connection, a machine learning model, etc.

## What is a model component?

(TBC)

```python
class CustomModel(Model):
    def inspect(self) -> typing.Any:
        return self.model.__dict__

    def predict(self, x: typing.Any) -> typing.Any:
        return self.model.predict(x)


class CustomModelComponent(ModelComponent):
    def resolve(self) -> CustomModel:
        return self.model


component = CustomModelComponent(model)


class CustomModelResource(ModelResource, metaclass=ModelResourceType):
    name = "custom_model"
    verbose_name = "Custom model"
    component = component


app.add_component(component)
app.models.add_model_resource("/", CustomModelResource)
```
