content/docs/3-Flama CLI/2-Serve.mdx, before:

---
title: Serve
wip: true
---

import FlamaName from '@/components/FlamaName'
import PythonName from '@/components/PythonName'

## Serve machine-learning models

In the previous section we have introduced the command **run** of <FlamaName /> CLI.
The **run** command allowed us to serve any <FlamaName /> app, being possible to adapt the configuration
of the app using the standard **uvicorn** arguments. But this is not the end of the story.

The command **serve** comes to the rescue of those who are looking for an instantaneous serving of
an ML model without having to write an app. This command, as we are about to see, only
requires the ML model to be served. The model will have to be saved as a binary file beforehand by using
the tools offered by <FlamaName />. The details about how to properly save the models can be
found in the section [packaging models](/docs/machine-learning-api/packaging-models).

### Example files

The best way of seeing the power of **serve** is by example. Although we have not yet seen how
to produce the ML file needed (go to [packaging models](/docs/machine-learning-api/packaging-models) to learn
how), we can use any of the following example files for the sake of learning:

- [Scikit Learn model](/models/sklearn_model.flm)
- [TensorFlow model](/models/tensorflow_model.flm)
- [PyTorch model](/models/pytorch_model.flm)

Once you have downloaded any of the files listed above, you will be able to serve your first ML
model codeless.

### Codeless serving

Let's pick up one of the example model files we have just introduced in the previous section, say
**sklearn_model.flm**. Now, let's run:

```commandline
> flama serve sklearn_model.flm

INFO:     Started server process [15822]
INFO:     Waiting for application startup.
INFO:     Application startup complete.
INFO:     Uvicorn running on http://127.0.0.1:8000 (Press CTRL+C to quit)
```

Does it seem familiar? Yup, indeed, as you can see we have a <FlamaName /> app up and
running on **http://127.0.0.1** and listening via the port **8000**.
But, this time we have not written a single line of code!
This is the **codeless approach** of <FlamaName /> to ML models deployment,
which makes possible the deployment of an already trained-tested ML model as an API
ready to receive requests and return estimations almost without any effort.

#### How do we interact with the model?

So, we have an app which is running an ML model. The natural question to ask
now is, how do I interact with that model? All models serve with **flama serve**
come with the following end points for free:

- **POST /model/predict/**
- **GET /model/**
- **GET /schema/**
- **GET /docs/**

When use **serve**, there is some magic that happens under the hood which eventually
leads to having...

Here we present the endpoints and documentation (SWAGER) auto-geneated,
besides any other optional flag we might be able to pass to uvicorn,
either as parameter, option or environment variable. Examples:

- FLAMA_APP
- FLAMA_MODEL
- FLAMA_URL

Commit message:

:construction: Add Label component to represent curl methods

content/docs/3-Flama CLI/2-Serve.mdx, after:

---
title: Serve
wip: true
---

import FlamaName from '@/components/FlamaName'
import PythonName from '@/components/PythonName'
import Label from '@/components/Label'

## Serve machine-learning models

In the previous section we have introduced the command **run** of <FlamaName /> CLI.
The **run** command allowed us to serve any <FlamaName /> app, being possible to adapt the configuration
of the app using the standard **uvicorn** arguments. But this is not the end of the story.

The command **serve** comes to the rescue of those who are looking for an instantaneous serving of
an ML model without having to write an app. This command, as we are about to see, only
requires the ML model to be served. The model will have to be saved as a binary file beforehand by using
the tools offered by <FlamaName />. The details about how to properly save the models can be
found in the section [packaging models](/docs/machine-learning-api/packaging-models).

### Example files

The best way of seeing the power of **serve** is by example. Although we have not yet seen how
to produce the ML file needed (go to [packaging models](/docs/machine-learning-api/packaging-models) to learn
how), we can use any of the following example files for the sake of learning:

- [Scikit Learn model](/models/sklearn_model.flm)
- [TensorFlow model](/models/tensorflow_model.flm)
- [PyTorch model](/models/pytorch_model.flm)

Once you have downloaded any of the files listed above, you will be able to serve your first ML
model codeless.

### Codeless serving

Let's pick up one of the example model files we have just introduced in the previous section, say
**sklearn_model.flm**. Now, let's run:

```commandline
> flama serve sklearn_model.flm

INFO:     Started server process [15822]
INFO:     Waiting for application startup.
INFO:     Application startup complete.
INFO:     Uvicorn running on http://127.0.0.1:8000 (Press CTRL+C to quit)
```

Does it seem familiar? Yup, indeed, as you can see we have a <FlamaName /> app up and
running on **http://127.0.0.1** and listening via the port **8000**.
But, this time we have not written a single line of code!
This is the **codeless approach** of <FlamaName /> to ML models deployment,
which makes possible the deployment of an already trained-tested ML model as an API
ready to receive requests and return estimations almost without any effort.

#### How do we interact with the model?

So, we have an app which is running an ML model. The natural question to ask
now is, how do we interact with that model? All models serve with **flama serve**
come with the following end points for free:

- **http://127.0.0.1:8000/predict/** <Label color="1">POST</Label> This path expects the input data to be passed as input argument of the
- **http://127.0.0.1:8000/model/**
- **GET /schema/**
- **GET /docs/**

When use **serve**, there is some magic that happens under the hood which eventually
leads to having...

Here we present the endpoints and documentation (SWAGER) auto-geneated,
besides any other optional flag we might be able to pass to uvicorn,
either as parameter, option or environment variable. Examples:

- FLAMA_APP
- FLAMA_MODEL
- FLAMA_URL
